Machine learning is one of the most exciting recent technologies.
In this class, you learn about the state of the art and also gain practice
implementing and deploying these machine learning algorithms yourself. 
You've probably used a learning algorithm dozens of times a day without knowing it. 
Every time you use a web search engine like Google or Bing to search the internet, 
one of the reasons that works so well is because a learning algorithm, one implemented 
by Google or Microsoft, has learned how to rank web pages. Every time you use Facebook or
Apple's photo typing application and it recognizes your friends' photos, that's
also machine learning. Every time you read your email and your spam filter saves you
from having to wade through tons of spam email, that's also a learning algorithm.

So why is machine learning so prevalent today?
It turns out that machine learning is a field that had grown out of the field of
AI, or artificial intelligence. We wanted to build intelligent machines and it turns
out that there are a few basic things that we could program a machine to do such as
how to find the shortest path from A to B. But for the most part we just did not know
how to write AI programs to do the more interesting things such as web search or
photo tagging or email anti-spam. There was a realization that the only way to do
these things was to have a machine learn to do it by itself. So, machine learning
was developed as a new capability for computers and today it touches many
segments of industry and basic science. 

For me, I work on machine learning and
in a typical week I might end up talking to helicopter pilots, biologists, a bunch
of computer systems people  and averaging
two or three times a week I get email from people in industry from Silicon Valley
contacting me who have an interest in applying learning algorithms to their own
problems. This is a sign of the range of problems that machine learning touches.
There is autonomous robotics, computational biology, tons of things in Silicon Valley
that machine learning is having an impact on. Here are some other examples of
machine learning. There's database mining. One of the reasons machine learning has so
pervaded is the growth of the web and the growth of automation. All this means that
we have much larger data sets than ever before. So, for example tons of Silicon
Valley companies are today collecting web click data, also called clickstream data,
and are trying to use machine learning algorithms to mine this data to understand
the users better and to serve the users better. 

Every time you go to Amazon or Netflix or iTunes Genius, and it
recommends the movies or products and music to you, that's a learning algorithm.
If you think about it they have million users; there is no way to write a million
different programs for your million users. The only way to have software give these
customized recommendations is to learn by itself to customize itself to
your preferences. Finally learning algorithms are being used today to
understand human learning and to understand the brain. We'll talk about
how researches are using this to make progress towards the big AI dream. 

A few months ago, a student showed me an article on the top twelve IT skills. The skills
that information technology hiring managers cannot say no to. It was a
slightly older article, but at the top of this list of the twelve most desirable IT
skills was machine learning. Here at Stanford, the number of recruiters
that contact me asking if I know any graduating machine learning students
is far larger than the machine learning students we graduate each year. So I
think there is a vast, unfulfilled demand for this skill set, and this is a great time to
be learning about machine learning, and I hope to teach you a lot about machine
learning in this class. We'll start to give a more formal
definition of what is machine learning. And we'll begin to talk about the main
types of machine learning problems and algorithms. You'll pick up some of the
main machine learning terminology, and start to get a sense of what are the
different algorithms, and when each one might be appropriate.
